Automating SQL Injection
The SQL injection process we have followed
can be automated with the help of
several tools pre-installed in Kali Linux.
One of the more notable tools is sqlmap,
which can be used to identify
and exploit SQL injection vulnerabilities
against various database engines.
Let’s use sqlmap on our
sample web application.
We will set the URL we
want to scan with -u,
and specify the parameter to test with -p.
For this example,
we will accept the defaults
for any prompts
that appear while sqlmap is running.
Sqlmap issues multiple requests
to probe if a parameter is
vulnerable to SQL injection.
It also attempts to determine
what database software is being used
so it can adjust the
attacks to that software.
In this case, it found four different
techniques to exploit the vulnerability.
It also lists a payload
for each technique.
Even when sqlmap is doing the work for us,
having these sample
payloads helps us understand
how it exploited the vulnerability.
We can now use sqlmap to
automate the extraction of data
from the database.
We will run sqlmap again
with –dbms to set “MySQL”
as the backend type,
and –dump to dump the contents
of all tables in the database.
Sqlmap supports several backend
databases in the dbms flag
but it doesn’t make a distinction
between MariaDB and MySQL.
Setting “MySQL” will work well
enough for this example.
According to the output,
sqlmap was able to dump the
contents of the entire database.
In addition to displaying the contents
in the terminal window,
sqlmap also created a CSV file
with the dumped content.
Sqlmap has many other features,
such as the ability to attempt
Web Application Firewall bypasses
and execute complex queries
to automate the complete
takeover of a server.
For example, using the os-shell parameter
will attempt to automatically upload
and execute a remote command shell
on the target system.
We can use this feature by
running sqlmap with –os-shell
to execute a shell on the system.
Since we know this is a PHP application,
we will accept the default here.
Once sqlmap establishes a shell,
we can run commands on the
server and view the output.
This shell can be somewhat slow
but it can provide an effective foothold
to gain access to the underlying server.
We recommend practicing
with sqlmap within the labs
and on the Windows 10 lab machine.
Consider using it in conjunction
with tools like Burp and Wireshark
to capture what the tool is doing
and then attempt to
replicate the attacks manually.
This is often a very effective learning
technique and should not be overlooked.